==EventCalendar

Easily show multiple, overlapping events across calendar days and rows.

See http://dev.elevationblog.com/2009/7/23/event-calendar-rails-plugin for a screenshot.

After install, the "calendar" method will be available within your views.

To customize the look, modify the included stylesheet and/or change the default options.


==Install

=== Rails 2

  script/plugin install git://github.com/elevation/event_calendar.git

To generate the necessary static files AND the example below:

  script/generate event_calendar

=== Rails 3

  rails plugin install git://github.com/elevation/event_calendar.git

To generate the necessary static files AND the example below:

  rails generate event_calendar

=== Generator Options

  script/generate event_calendar --help

  --static-only: Only generate the stylesheet and javascript
  --use-jquery: Generate jquery javascript
  --use-all-day: Include an 'all_day' field on events, and display appropriately

You can change the default event model name (Event) and controller/view name (Calendar) by passing in two name arguments:

  script/generate event_calendar EventModel ControllerName


==Generated Files

Make sure to include the stylesheet and javascript in your layout/view.

====Static files

  public/stylesheets/event_calendar.css
  public/javascripts/event_calendar.js

Unless the --static-only option is given, the following will be
generated. Names will differ if name arguments were passed to the
generator.

====db/migrate/XXXX_create_events.rb

  class CreateEvents < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      create_table :events do |t|
        t.string :name
        t.datetime :start_at
        t.datetime :end_at

        t.timestamps
      end
    end

    def self.down
      drop_table :events
    end
  end
  
At minimum we need to have start_at and end_at fields. Altnernatively, you can configure the columns to be used by passing options to has_event_calendar.

If the '--use-all-day' option is passed to the generator, it will also add a boolean all_day field. Set :start_at to be any time on the day of the event and set :all_day to true.

An event can also have a *color* field (any string which is a valid CSS color) which determines the color of the event.  Or simply override the default virtual attribute on the model. For example, if events are associated to a calendar model, then the events can get their color from the calendar.

====app/models/event.rb
  
  class Event < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_event_calendar

    # To specify the columns to use call it like this:
    # 
    # has_event_calendar :start_at_field  => 'custom_start_at', :end_at_field => 'custom_end_at'
    # 

  end

====config/routes.rb

  map.calendar '/calendar/:year/:month', :controller => 'calendar', :action => 'index', :requirements => {:year => /\d{4}/, :month => /\d{1,2}/}, :year => nil, :month => nil

====app/controllers/calendar_controller.rb
  
  class CalendarController < ApplicationController

    def index
      @month = (params[:month] || Time.zone.now.month).to_i
      @year = (params[:year] || Time.zone.now.year).to_i

      @shown_month = Date.civil(@year, @month)

      @event_strips = Event.event_strips_for_month(@shown_month)
  
      # To restrict what events are included in the result you can pass additional find options like this:
      #
      # @event_strips = Event.event_strips_for_month(@shown_month, :include => :some_relation, :conditions => 'some_relations.some_column = true')
      #

    end

  end

====app/helpers/calendar_helper.rb

Some helper methods are created, but you could put this in the view. The key is our calendar method, which takes some options.

  module CalendarHelper
    def month_link(month_date)
      link_to(I18n.localize(month_date, :format => "%B"), {:month => month_date.month, :year => month_date.year})
    end
  
    # custom options for this calendar
    def event_calendar_options
      { 
        :year => @year,
        :month => @month,
        :event_strips => @event_strips,
        :month_name_text => I18n.localize(@shown_month, :format => "%B %Y"),
        :previous_month_text => "<< " + month_link(@shown_month.last_month),
        :next_month_text => month_link(@shown_month.next_month) + " >>"
      }
    end

    def event_calendar
      calendar event_calendar_options do |args|
        event = args[:event]
        %(<a href="/events/#{event.id}" title="#{h(event.name)}">#{h(event.name)}</a>)
      end
    end
  end
  
Notice you can pass in a block to the calendar method. In this example I'm passing a link to the event details, and displaying the event's name.

====app/views/calendar/index.html.erb

Then in calendar view, simply:

  <%= event_calendar %>
  
In Rails 3, use raw(event_calendar)


==Default Options

The default options for the calendar are:

  defaults = {
    :year => Time.zone.now.year,
    :month => Time.zone.now.month,
    :abbrev => true,
    :first_day_of_week => 0, # See note below when setting this
    :show_today => true,
    :month_name_text => Time.zone.now.strftime("%B %Y"),
    :previous_month_text => nil,
    :next_month_text => nil,
    :event_strips => [],
    
    # it would be nice to have these in the CSS file
    # but they are needed to perform height calculations
    :width => nil,
    :height => 500, 
    :day_names_height => 18,
    :day_nums_height => 18,
    :event_height => 18,
    :event_margin => 1,
    :event_padding_top => 1,
    
    :use_all_day => false,
    :use_javascript => true,
    :link_to_day_action => false
  }
  
You can override any of these by passing your options to the calendar method. In the above example, update the event_calendar_options helper method.

====Details

* See the notes in the plugin's calendar_helper.rb for more info.

* *width*: Optional, if none is given it will stretch to the containing element.

* *height*: Defaults to 500px. This is the approx minimum total height of the calendar. It could be greater if a calendar row(s) need to stretch to fit additional events.

* *use_all_day*: If set to true, will check for an 'all_day' boolean field when displaying an event. If it is an all day event, or the event is multiple days, then it will display as usual. Otherwise it will display without a background color bar.

  Helper/View:
    :use_all_day => true
  
  If using this option, you probably want to also show times for non-all-day events:
    calendar event_calendar_options do |args|
      event, day = args[:event], args[:day]
      html = %(<a href="/events/#{event.id}" title="#{h(event.name)}">)
      html << display_event_time(event, day)
      html << %(#{h(event.name)}</a>)
      html
    end

* *use_javascript*: If set to false, it won't add custom HTML data attributes that are needed for javascript highlighting. (Note, custom attributes will be valid in HTML 5.) The actual javascript is unobtrusive and found in the event_calendar.js file.

* *link_to_day_action*: Will make the calendar's day numbers links to the given Rails action. Note, you'll probably want a corresponding route, controller action, and view to go with this action. Example:
  
  Helper/View calendar option:
    :link_to_day_action => "day"
  
  Route (the controller is the same as your other calendar route):
    map.calendar_day "/calendar/:year/:month/:day", :controller => "calendar", :action => "day"


==Notes

* If you want to change the <b>first day of the week</b> from the default of Sunday (0), then set the new value in an instance variable and pass it to event_strips_for_month (in the controller), and to the event calendar options (in the helper/view).

  Controller:
    @first_day_of_week = 1
    @event_strips = Event.event_strips_for_month(@shown_month, @first_day_of_week)
  
  Helper/View calendar options:
    :first_day_of_week => @first_day_of_week
    
* If you need access to the events, not just the event strips, then instead of calling event_strips_for_month call these 3 methods:

    start_d, end_d = Event.get_start_and_end_dates(@shown_month) # optionally pass in @first_day_of_week
    @events = Event.events_for_date_range(start_d, end_d)
    @event_strips = Event.create_event_strips(start_d, end_d, @events)

* The event <b>select color</b> is set in the event_calendar.js file.

==il8n

To localize month and day names, add the following to your localization file(s) in config/locales:

  date -> formats, day_names, abbr_day_names, month_names, abbr_month_names
  
For example, in es.yml:

  es:
    date:
      formats:
        default: "%e/%m/%Y"

      day_names: [Domingo, Lunes, Martes, Miércoles, Jueves, Viernes, Sábado]
      abbr_day_names: [Dom, Lun, Mar, Mie, Jue, Vie, Sab]

      # Don't forget the nil at the beginning; there's no such thing as a 0th month
      month_names: [~, Enero, Febrero, Marzo, Abril, Mayo, Junio, Julio, Agosto, Septiembre, Octubre, Noviembre, Diciembre]
      abbr_month_names: [~, Ene, Feb, Mar, Abr, May, Jun, Jul, Ago, Sep, Oct, Nov, Dic]
  

==Contributors

* Jeff Schuil
* See commit history for list of additional contributors.
* Thanks to those who have added features, fixed bugs, and/or reported issues.

== History

* Though EventCalendar has diverged greatly, it was...
* Originally based off of James Urquhart's http://www.cuppadev.co.uk/webdev/making-a-real-calendar-in-rails/
* This in turn started as Geoffrey Grosenbach's CalendarHelper.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elevation, released under the MIT license
